Pull requests tests documentation for contributors (#8483)
magento/devdocs: src/contributor-guide/pull-request-tests.md

-  [Running tests for a pull request](#run-pull-request-tests)
-  [Related pull requests](#related-pull-requests)

## Magento Automated Testing {#magento-automated-testing}

Magento Automated Testing is a testing infrastructure that allows to run the set of all required Magento Automated Tests against code in Pull Requests. It can be triggered via a comment in a pull request. The running tests are represented both as Pull Request statuses and as Pull Requests checks.

Below there's information about all kinds of tests available currently.

### Semantic Version Checker

Semantic Version Checker is a test that compares the changed code against the mainline and detects levels of code changes. It shows a list of changes grouped by the class (level) of changes (MAJOR, MINOR, PATCH) with explanation of the change (Class was removed, [public] Method implementation changed, [private] Property has been removed etc.) The allowed level is PATCH.
Please see the [Backward Compatibility Development Guide](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.3/contributor-guide/backward-compatible-development/index.html) for more information

### Functional Tests

> Functional Tests are PHPUnit-based tests that check Magento functional behavior from the perspective of a user. They press buttons and links in browser, fill and submit forms, look and check what is displayed in the browser's window like real users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Functional Tests are PHPUnit-based tests that check Magento functional behavior from the perspective of a user. They click buttons and links in a browser, fill and submit forms, verify what is displayed in the browser window like real users.
```

### Sample Data Tests

Sample Data Tests are functional tests that run on Magento with Sample Data included.

### Unit Tests

> Unit tests are PHPUnit-based (for PHP) and Jasmine-based (for JS) tests which check the behavior of single methods of Magento classes. The purpose is to validate that each unit of Magento performs as designed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unit tests are PHPUnit-based (for PHP) and Jasmine-based (for JS) tests that check the behavior of single methods of Magento classes. The purpose is to validate that each unit of Magento performs as designed.
```

### Integration Tests

> Integration Tests are PHPUnit-based tests that check the behaviour of group of Magento components. They include three types of tests:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Integration Tests are PHPUnit-based tests that check the behavior of a group of Magento components. They include three types of tests:
```

> -  Standard Integration tests which check Magento behavior on installed instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Standard Integration tests that check Magento behavior on an installed instance.
```

> -  Setup Integration tests which check Magento behavior during the installation process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Setup Integration tests that check Magento behavior during the installation process.
```

> -  Integration Integrity tests which check the consistency of installed Magento instance (configuration files, DB schemes etc.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Integration Integrity tests that check the consistency of an installed Magento instance (for example, configuration files and database schemes).
```

### WebAPI Tests

> WebAPI Tests are functional tests that check the behavior of Magento Web API endpoints. They send requests to endpoints of installed Magento instance and and then check the response received and the state of the instance. Currently they include three kinds of tests:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

WebAPI Tests are functional tests that check the behavior of Magento Web API endpoints. They send requests to endpoints of an installed Magento instance and and then check the response received and the state of the instance. Currently they include three kinds of tests:
```

-  SOAP Web API tests
-  REST Web API tests
-  GraphQL WEB API tests

### Static Tests

> Static Tests are set of different checks that analyze each single file of Magento code base separately. Most of them analyze the whole Magento code base whereas some run only against the change set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Static Tests are a set of different checks that analyze every single file of the Magento code base separately. Most of them analyze the whole Magento code base, whereas some run only against the change set.
```

### Database Compare

> Database Compare is a test which compares DB schema and data between freshly installed Magento instance (from the PR code) and another instance which was upgraded to the PR code from the pre-previous latest minor release Magento version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Database Compare is a test that compares the database schema and data between a freshly installed Magento instance (from the pull request code) and another instance that was upgraded to the PR code from the latest minor release version of Magento.
```

### Magento Component Health Index

> Magento Component Health Index is a test which analyses Magento code quality and calculates weighted health index (100 is great, lower is worse) per Magento Component (module). The index is calculated based on 3 groups of indicators:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Magento Component Health Index is a test that analyses Magento code quality and calculates a weighted health index (100 is great, lower is worse) for each Magento Component (module). The index is calculated based on three groups of indicators:
```

> -  General code quality indicators (GCQI). The metrics described [here](http://pdepend.org/documentation/software-metrics/index.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  [General code quality indicators (GCQI)](http://pdepend.org/documentation/software-metrics/index.html)
```

-  Magento-specific code quality indicators (MSCQ)
-  Legacy API usage indicators (LAI)

> Additional information on Magento Automated Testing can be found on [Magento 2 project wiki](https://github.com/magento/magento2/wiki/Magento-Automated-Testing).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additional information on Magento Automated Testing can be found on the [Magento 2 project wiki](https://github.com/magento/magento2/wiki/Magento-Automated-Testing).
```

> ## Running tests for a pull request {#run-pull-request-tests}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Running tests for a pull request
```

Automated tests can be triggered manually with an appropriate comment:

> -  `@magento run all tests` - run or re-run all required tests against the PR changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  `@magento run all tests`—run or re-run all required tests against the pull request changes
```

> -  `@magento run <test-build(s)>` - run or re-run specific test build(s)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  `@magento run <test-build(s)>`—run or re-run specific test build(s)
```

For example: `@magento run Unit Tests` or `@magento run Unit Tests,Integration Tests`

`<test-build(s)>` is a comma-separated list of build names. Build names can be copied from the Checks section.

## Test results

The build progress and test results are indicated by check runs under the pull request conversation.

Click on the "Details" link to see the results summary and links to corresponding Allure reports.

> ## Related pull requests {#related-pull-requests}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Related pull requests
```

> When the contribution requires changes to more than one repository merged simultaneously, such pull requests should be linked using "Related Pull Requests" description section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a contribution requires changes to more than one repository merged simultaneously, such pull requests should be linked using the "Related Pull Requests" description section.
```

The related pull requests should be specified in the pull request description in the following format:

```lang-none
### Related Pull Requests
https://github.com/<organization>/<repository>/pull/<pull request number>
<links to other realted PRs>
<!-- related pull request placeholder -->
```

> When the tests are launched against a pull request that contains links to related pull request in the description the related pull requests branches will be used as a code base for the tests instead of mainline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the tests are launched against a pull request that contains links to related pull request in the description, the related pull requests branches will be used as a code base for the tests instead of mainline.
```

Check runs will be updated for each of the related pull requests.

> Related pull requests are delivered to magento repositories simultaneously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Related pull requests are delivered to Magento repositories simultaneously.
```

---
group: contributor-guide
title: Pull Request Tests
---

The following topics are included in this guide:

-  [Magento Automated Testing](#magento-automated-testing)
-  [Running tests for a pull request](#run-pull-request-tests)
-  [Related pull requests](#related-pull-requests)

## Magento Automated Testing {#magento-automated-testing}

Magento Automated Testing is a testing infrastructure that allows to run the set of all required Magento Automated Tests against code in Pull Requests. It can be triggered via a comment in a pull request. The running tests are represented both as Pull Request statuses and as Pull Requests checks.

Below there's information about all kinds of tests available currently.

### Semantic Version Checker

> Semantic Version Checker is a test that compares the changed code against the mainline and detects levels of code changes. It shows a list of changes grouped by the class (level) of changes (MAJOR, MINOR, PATCH) with explanation of the change (Class was removed, [public] Method implementation changed, [private] Property has been removed etc.) The allowed level is PATCH.

Reviewer 2: This was definitely extended with MFTF SVC. Please talk to Alex Kolesnik

Author: Do you think we can skip adding the details and leave only the general description of the test for now?

Please see the [Backward Compatibility Development Guide](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.3/contributor-guide/backward-compatible-development/index.html) for more information

### Functional Tests

> Functional Tests are PHPUnit-based tests that check Magento functional behavior from the perspective of a user. They press buttons and links in browser, fill and submit forms, look and check what is displayed in the browser's window like real users.

Reviewer 2: Here there were added static checks of MFTF tests. Please talk to Alex Kolesnyk

Author: @okolesnyk can you please help to update the content of documentation?

Author: @slavvka do you think we can go with general tests description, not listing all the subtypes of tests for now?

### Sample Data Tests
Sample Data Tests are functional tests that run on Magento with Sample Data included. Currently they include two kinds of tests:

> * Sample Data functional tests which check Magento functional behavior with Sample Data installed

Reviewer 2: Here as well

Author: Removed the detailed description

### Integration Tests
Integration Tests are PHPUnit-based tests that check the behaviour of group of Magento components. They include three types of tests:
* Standard Integration tests which check Magento behavior on installed instance.
* Setup Integration tests which check Magento behavior during the installation process.
* Integration Integrity tests which check the consistency of installed Magento instance (configuration files, DB schemes etc.)

### WebAPI Tests
WebAPI Tests are functional tests that check the behavior of Magento Web API endpoints. They send requests to endpoints of installed Magento instance and and then check the response received and the state of the instance. Currently they include three kinds of tests:
* SOAP Web API tests
* REST Web API tests
* GraphQL WEB API tests

### Static Tests
Static Tests are set of different checks that analyze each single file of Magento code base separately. Most of them analyze the whole Magento code base whereas some run only against the change set. They include:

> * Static Integration tests (PHPUnit-based) which check the consistency of Magento instance without installation (configuration files, DB schemes etc.)

Reviewer 2: Also for some kind of tests there were added failure reports. I don't have exact list of test builds. Please talk to Ann Beeskau

Author: @abeeskau can you please help to update this documentation content?

Author: @slavvka see the comment above. The details have been removed from the PR

* Static Legacy Tests which check Magento code doesn't contain any deprecated approaches and patterns.

> * Static PHP, LESS, JS, TS, HTML, GraphQL Code Style tests which check Magento source code against the best practices of programming style (Code style, Mess detector, Copy/Paste detector)

Author: @slavvka thanks for the review, do you know if there is up to date documentation on your points

> * Static PHP, LESS, JS, TS, HTML, GraphQL Code Style tests which check Magento source code against the best practices of programming style (Code style, Mess detector, Copy/Paste detector)

Author: Removed the listing of each static test to simplify the document maintainance

* Static Sanity Check which tests Magento code against dictionary of forbidden words.
* Static Conflicts Check which tests Magento code doesn't contain duplicate file paths between Magento editions and bundle extensions.

### Database Compare

Database Compare is a test which compares DB schema and data between freshly installed Magento instance (from the PR code) and another instance which was upgraded to the PR code from the pre-previous latest minor release Magento version. Usually it runs several separate scenarios:

> * Upgrade from the latest pre-previous minor release directly to the PR code (e.g. 2.2.x => 2.4-based PR code)

Author: Removed the details for easier maintainance
